welcome back to Startalk we're
featuring my interview with
actress Miami Alec she is the
neuroscientist on the hit TV
series The Big Bang Theory and I
asked her about the portrayal of
women scientists is a good is it
bad is it working
let's check it out but we did an
episode where Bernadette poses
for a sexy scientists photo
shoot and amy has a very big
problem remember that and it's
something that I'm asked about a
lot because I do advocacy for
stem and young women and I'm
often asked you know what do you
think about the you know the
white starched shirt open with
the black bra on the glasses
down on the red lips and you
know and to me I I don't knock
women or scientists who want to
do that for me that's not the
way that I choose to portray
women in science you know I
don't think we need to take our
clothes off you know to show
that women in science can also
take their clothes off but i
think you know part of the
advocacy that I try and do is to
put a fresh face you know A+
face and a female face on these
subjects i think that a lot of
also what's missing from trying
to engage young women is not
just the sex factor or the
attractiveness factor which i do
agree might be more important in
in this day and age then it
might have been 10 or 20 or 50
years ago but I think also that
a lot of women don't know the
kinds of careers that are
available to them and people
picture themselves or at least I
did I don't want to be alone in
the lab for the rest of my life
I don't want to be energy lab
coat and ugly glasses for the
restaurant and that's what when
I was in elementary school
junior high that's what i
thought it was but when I got
older and I understood Oh marine
biology is actually being a
scientist working in the field
working with animals working in
the environment you know all
those things are also science if
you like engineering and you
want to do coding not yourself
out but there are many careers
that involve a lot of creativity
and a lot of being out and about
and that's I think what we need
to try and communicate to girls
as young as possible